CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

## Development

### System Requirements

Python 3.8 and above are required.

### Target version(s)

Python 3.8 and above are supported by the SDK.

### Installation and Dependencies

A [`Makefile`](./Makefile) has been included in the project which should make it straightforward to start the project locally. We utilize virtual environments (see [`venv`](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html)) in order to provide isolated development environments for the project. This reduces the risk of invalid or corrupt global packages. It also integrates nicely with Make, which will detect changes in the `requirements.txt` file and update the virtual environment if any occur.

Run `make init` to initialize the project's virtual environment and install all dev dependencies.

### Testing

Run tests with `make test`.

We use `pytest` for our unit testing, making use of `parametrized` to inject cases at scale.

### Integration tests

These are planned once the SDK has been stabilized and a Flagd provider implemented. At that point, we will utilize the [gherkin integration tests](https://github.com/open-feature/test-harness/blob/main/features/evaluation.feature) to validate against a live, seeded Flagd instance.

### Packaging

We publish to the PyPI repository, where you can find this package at [openfeature-sdk](https://pypi.org/project/openfeature-sdk/).

## Pull Request

All contributions to the OpenFeature project are welcome via GitHub pull requests.

To create a new PR, you will need to first fork the GitHub repository and clone upstream.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/open-feature/python-sdk.git openfeature-python-sdk
```

Navigate to the repository folder

```bash
cd openfeature-python-sdk
```

Add your fork as an origin

```bash
git remote add fork https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/python-sdk.git
```

Ensure your development environment is all set up by building and testing

```bash
make
```

To start working on a new feature or bugfix, create a new branch and start working on it.

```bash
git checkout -b feat/NAME_OF_FEATURE
# Make your changes
git commit
git push fork feat/NAME_OF_FEATURE
```

Open a pull request against the main python-sdk repository.

### How to Receive Comments

- If the PR is not ready for review, please mark it as
  [`draft`](https://github.blog/2019-02-14-introducing-draft-pull-requests/).
- Make sure all required CI checks are clear.
- Submit small, focused PRs addressing a single concern/issue.
- Make sure the PR title reflects the contribution.
- Write a summary that explains the change.
- Include usage examples in the summary, where applicable.

### How to Get PRs Merged

A PR is considered to be **ready to merge** when:

- Major feedback is resolved.
- Urgent fix can take exception as long as it has been actively communicated.

Any Maintainer can merge the PR once it is **ready to merge**. Note, that some
PRs may not be merged immediately if the repo is in the process of a release and
the maintainers decided to defer the PR to the next release train.

If a PR has been stuck (e.g. there are lots of debates and people couldn't agree
on each other), the owner should try to get people aligned by:

- Consolidating the perspectives and putting a summary in the PR. It is
  recommended to add a link into the PR description, which points to a comment
  with a summary in the PR conversation.
- Tagging domain experts (by looking at the change history) in the PR asking
  for suggestion.
- Reaching out to more people on the [CNCF OpenFeature Slack channel](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C0344AANLA1).
- Stepping back to see if it makes sense to narrow down the scope of the PR or
  split it up.
- If none of the above worked and the PR has been stuck for more than 2 weeks,
  the owner should bring it to the OpenFeatures [meeting](README.md#contributing).

## Design Choices

As with other OpenFeature SDKs, python-sdk follows the
[openfeature-specification](https://github.com/open-feature/spec).

Commit message:

ci: switch to hatch (#297)
switch to hatch

Signed-off-by: gruebel <anton.gruebel@gmail.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

## Development

### System Requirements

Python 3.8 and above are required.

### Target version(s)

Python 3.8 and above are supported by the SDK.

### Installation and Dependencies

We use [Hatch](https://hatch.pypa.io/) to manage the project.

To install Hatch, just run `pip install hatch`.

You will also need to set up the `pre-commit` hooks.
Run `pre-commit install` in the root directory of the repository.
If you don't have `pre-commit` installed, you can install it with `pip install pre-commit`.

### Testing

Run tests with `hatch run test`.

We use `pytest` for our unit testing, making use of `parametrized` to inject cases at scale.

### Integration tests

These are planned once the SDK has been stabilized and a Flagd provider implemented. At that point, we will utilize the [gherkin integration tests](https://github.com/open-feature/test-harness/blob/main/features/evaluation.feature) to validate against a live, seeded Flagd instance.

### Packaging

We publish to the PyPI repository, where you can find this package at [openfeature-sdk](https://pypi.org/project/openfeature-sdk/).

## Pull Request

All contributions to the OpenFeature project are welcome via GitHub pull requests.

To create a new PR, you will need to first fork the GitHub repository and clone upstream.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/open-feature/python-sdk.git openfeature-python-sdk
```

Navigate to the repository folder

```bash
cd openfeature-python-sdk
```

Add your fork as an origin

```bash
git remote add fork https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/python-sdk.git
```

Ensure your development environment is all set up by building and testing

```bash
hatch run test
```

To start working on a new feature or bugfix, create a new branch and start working on it.

```bash
git checkout -b feat/NAME_OF_FEATURE
# Make your changes
git commit
git push fork feat/NAME_OF_FEATURE
```

Open a pull request against the main python-sdk repository.

### How to Receive Comments

- If the PR is not ready for review, please mark it as
  [`draft`](https://github.blog/2019-02-14-introducing-draft-pull-requests/).
- Make sure all required CI checks are clear.
- Submit small, focused PRs addressing a single concern/issue.
- Make sure the PR title reflects the contribution.
- Write a summary that explains the change.
- Include usage examples in the summary, where applicable.

### How to Get PRs Merged

A PR is considered to be **ready to merge** when:

- Major feedback is resolved.
- Urgent fix can take exception as long as it has been actively communicated.

Any Maintainer can merge the PR once it is **ready to merge**. Note, that some
PRs may not be merged immediately if the repo is in the process of a release and
the maintainers decided to defer the PR to the next release train.

If a PR has been stuck (e.g. there are lots of debates and people couldn't agree
on each other), the owner should try to get people aligned by:

- Consolidating the perspectives and putting a summary in the PR. It is
  recommended to add a link into the PR description, which points to a comment
  with a summary in the PR conversation.
- Tagging domain experts (by looking at the change history) in the PR asking
  for suggestion.
- Reaching out to more people on the [CNCF OpenFeature Slack channel](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C0344AANLA1).
- Stepping back to see if it makes sense to narrow down the scope of the PR or
  split it up.
- If none of the above worked and the PR has been stuck for more than 2 weeks,
  the owner should bring it to the OpenFeatures [meeting](README.md#contributing).

## Design Choices

As with other OpenFeature SDKs, python-sdk follows the
[openfeature-specification](https://github.com/open-feature/spec).
